Hello and welcome back to the course in
R programming and today we're moving back
a step. We're going back to aesthetics
and we'll be talking about this layer of
our visualization process and that's
because we want to learn about
overriding mystics right? Let's see how
this works.
So here we've got what we created
last time that beautiful meaningless
visualization and what did we learn? We
learned about applauding with flares so
we learned that we're creating objects
and that then we're adding layers and
layers and layers to create the
visualization. So let's quickly recap on
that, now let's create an object let's
say Q so we'll just keep incrementing
these numbers so that we use new ones
all the time ggplot and data equals
movies, aesthetics x equals critic,
rating and then y equals audience
rating. Then we want to color equals
genre and then we want size equals budget
millions.
Alright so we've created, we're going to
create the subject now and there we go
just added this Q object and now we're
going to say add job layer right? So
we're going to say Q plus geom
underscore point. Run that, there we go so
that's the visualization that we've seen
before.
Now what we're learning today is that
well as you can see this visualization
or the actually the geometry that we're
using geom point, it's inheriting the
aesthetic from this object from object
Q right? So it's saying okay what what
aesthetics does Q have, Q has XY
color and size. I'm going to take all of
those and I'm going to assume those
aesthetics so that's why it is plotted
at on this axis on this axis that's why
these thoughts are plotted in the sports
where they are then the colors are
assigned to them like that and also the
sizes. So but we can do is we can
override aesthetics and so we can say in
geom point, we want a specific aesthetic
to be different to the one that you have
here.
In the base of this visualization, so let's
look at that overriding. Writing
aesthetics, alright how do we do that? We
say Q plus geom point now instead of just
running it inside these brackets you can
specify it more aesthetics. So let's go
ahead and do that, we'll say aesthetics so you
can see actually mapping and that's what
we're doing we're saying aesthetics in
here we're going to say let's change the
size. Let's say size, we don't want it to be
budget million and you don't want it to
be critic rating for instance because
that's one of the variables we haven't
and that's just what we want to plot so
if we run that, you can see that now the
visualization is different because the the
size that we had in Q has been
overridden by this new mapping of size.
So this overrides what we had in there
so it is specific to geom point. So all
the points now are greater as you go to
the right they're greater because that is a
critic rating increasing and now you can
see that the budget has no effect on the
size.
Ok so that's example one. I'm actually
going to say here example one. Let's do
another example. Let's say example 2 and
let's say we want to override color. So Q
plus, I don't just take this and inside
here we want to say color and instead of
color being genre, let's say budget
millions. So if I run on this, you'll see now
the color is different. The color is
based on the budget rather than the
genre so the color is similar to the
size of the bubbles and by the way this
which brings us to this point that I
wanted to make is that if I just run
Q plus geom point underscored by
itself. Around like that, you'll see that
we've got that original plot that we had.
Why is that? Well because even though we
are overriding, we're not modifying the
object. We're not modifying Q in anyway. So
Q still stays as it was.
We're just for this specific plot, we're
saying we want to override this static
but then Q itself, it's not changing. So
whenever we stop overriding the values
then they revert back to the original. So
let's say here,
Q remains the same yep, so we're not
changing the object itself.
Alright, so what else can be alright here?
I wanted to also show you that we can
override even X&Y, so some people get bit
afraid like all oh wow. Those are you know
framework of this visualization there
are, the X&Y coordinates but they are
aesthetics just as color or as size and
like in terms of in a data
perspective X is no different to size or
color it's always just conveying
daughter in a different way. In a
different shape or format. So we're
going to say Q plus geom underscore
point and we're going to override the
x-axis. We're going to say x this time is
going to be budget millions right? So if
we run that, you can see that the plot is
different. So you get to go to the right,
the budget increases and here we've got
the audience rating. So as you can see,
audience rating doesn't really depend
that much on budget maybe at the highest
level of budget over here over 150
million. Maybe they're you know it's very
hard to get a poor rating from the
audience but otherwise your audience
audience doesn't discriminate and what
you will notice is if you look very
carefully and if we zoom in over here
you'll see that it still says critic
rating and that's kind of like a thing
in GGplot that it will still even though
we're over we have overridden the
aesthetic it still keeps the old name. It's
very easy to fix and we'll explore this
further in the course, all you have to do
is to say plus and then here say xlab
before because it's the x-axis in here
to save budget millions and you can
see dollar dollar or something like that.
So if you run that, you can see that the
axis has been updated successfully. Ok
and let's have a look at one more
example. Remember the plot where we had
four sorry we had example four, where we
had two visualizations together. So this one,
let's just take that one or let's take
this one. This one looks a bit better. So if
we take that one and we say instead of
P, Q, if we run that then we've got that
plot that were used to, but now what
you want to do let's reduce the size of
these lines because they are too thick
we can't see the dots right? Reduce a line
size and now let's say geom line and in
here we'll just say size equals one.
If we run that, you'll see that the sizes
change, it's thiner.
That's pretty good right and if you're
very attentive, you're probably now
saying Kirill what just happened?
You forgot the static function and
that's right over here
I didn't type an aesthetic right? So I
didn't aesthetic and something inside. I
just said size equals one and that's
that's a new thing that
we're going to learn. It's called mapping
versus setting and as you can see here we're
mapping variables to aesthetics. Here
we're actually just setting aesthetics and
we'll talk more about mapping versus setting
in the next tutorial. It's going to be a
fun thing to learn and very powerful
tool as well and for now I will leave
you to play around with what we learned today and I
look forward to seeing you next time. Until then, happy coding.